# Vehicle
What Drives the Price of a Car

We have acquired a report consisting of used car details over a period of 20+ years. The data included region, price, year, manufacturer, model, condition, cylinders, fuel, odometer, title_status, transmission, VIN, drive, size, type, paint_colr and state. Upon inspection of the data, we removed unnecessary colums (i.e. VIN) and cleansed data of missing values. We explored multiple ways to decide the driving factors behind vehicle prices such as correlations, plots, linear and polynomial regression models. During the process, we split data 70% training and 30% test. Furthermore, we categorized and encoded the string features. The model improved as we utilized additional features. We regularly tested the model with  the test data to ensure the features we included were improving the model. We also learned that the newer the model (year), the more likely the vehicle is purchased. More recent data in 2009 and 2019 were an exception due to the Great Recession and Covid outbreak. Overall we learned the features most valuable in vehicle purchase were the odometer reading, title status, fuel type, and condition. The following was the set of features which resulted in the best results: odometer, transmission, title_status, fuel, cylinders, condition, manufacturer, size, drive, type.

Please note: The vehicle data was too large (> 25 MB) and was refused by Github. The data can be found here: https://mo-pcco.s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/BH-PCMLAI-R2/module11/practical_application_II_starter.zip
